why continuous integration?
What is DEVOPS?
what is jenkins?
what aere jenkins features?
jenkins architecture?
Jenkins installation and setup

part2:
what is jenkins?
why we need continious integration?
Continuous integration?
Continuous Delivery?
Continuous deployment?
Continuous Integration is also a mindset !!
term relatd to jenkins?
why jenkins is popular?
Jenkins master salve's architecture?


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

why continuous integration?

if we look to software development its process that have different parts : the building phase , the implementation phase , the designing phase , testing phase
                                                                            the deployment phases , the maintenance phase , the monitoring phase
the developpers push their codes to the source code manager and the codes will be pulled by the testers than build then go to deployment => simple pipline
when lot of part are participating so we need to aplly continious integration because it help us to connect the defferent part of pipline
make the process in a big organization more formal and can handle lot of projects at the same time.


What is DEVOPS?

Dev = developers
OPS = oparations to do

we can see devops as a way of software development or a set of values and principles

=> the Software quality should be very high

Devop phases: 
-continuous development where the developers continue developping and pushing their codes to source code manager
-Contnuous testing ; the build software comes and tested by the scripts created by testers
-Continuous integration ; connects all the phases continuous development , continuous testing , continuous deployment and monitoring
-Continuous deployment ; when saccufully tested the code is deployed sent to the end user
-Continuous monitoring ; like a feedback from end users 



benefits : increase productivity insure high quality of product (exellence = happy customers) and less resources

what is jenkins?

Jenkins its an open source continuous integration tool written in Java allow us to automate the Software development process, making sure that there is minimum involvement from us.
it also integrates all the differents parts of the development

using jenkins you we create a built job that every time we push a code to the repository it detect automatically that change in the repository
it clone the code to sepecific server and start the actions relation to the development phases

benifits : its community source open source, free tool, support very large number of plugins , it can run with any platfrorm without any compatibility issue


Jenkins architecture:
we have multiple jenkins server : jenkins master node and jenkins slave nodes

one jenkins sever can handle specific numbers of requests

the master devide the jobs among the slaves

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
what is jenkins?
+ Developers commit code to a shared repository on a regular  basis.
+ Version control system is being monitored.When a commit is detected, a build will be triggered automatically.
+ If the build is not green,developers will be notified immediately.
why we need continious integration?
+ Detect problems or bugs, as early as possible, in the development life cycle.
+ Since the entire code base is integrated, built and tested constantly,the potential bugs and errors are caught earlier in	
the life cycle which results in	better quality software.


+Continuous Integration
The practice of merging development work with the main branch constantly. 
+Continuous Delivery
Continual delivery of code to an environment once the code is ready to ship. This could be staging or production. The idea is the product is delivered to a user base, which can be QAs or customers for review and inspection. 
+Continuous Deployment
The deployment or release of code to production as soon as it is ready.


+Continuous Integration is also a mindset 
• Fixing broken builds should be treated as a high priority issue for all team members. 
• The deployment process should be automated, with no manual steps involved. 
• All team members should focus on contributing to high-quality tests because the confidentiality of the CI process highly depends on the quality of the tests.


terms related to jenkins?
Jenkins is a continuous integration and build server. 
It is used to manually, periodically, or automatically build software development projects. 
It is an open source Continuous Integration tool written in Java. 
Jenkins is used by teams of all different sizes, for projects with various languages.

why jenkins is popular?

• Easy to use 
• Great extensibility 
– Support different version control systems 
– Code quality metrics
 – Build notifiers 
– UI customization

Jenkins master salve's architecture?

Master: 
• Schedule build jobs.
 • Dispatch builds to the slaves for the actual job execution.
 • Monitor the slaves and record the build results.
 • Can also execute build jobs directly. 
Slave: 
• Execute build jobs dispatched by the master.










